---
title: Using marks in Vim
layout: post
---

I use [Vim](http://www.vim.org/) every day and have been doing so for about 2
years now.  I'm nowhere near as efficient as I should be, but the speed at which
I can now edit files in comparison to my previous text editor
([TextMate](http://macromates.com/), naturally) is pretty astounding to me.

One feature that I use a *lot*, especially with Python files, is marks.

### How to make your life easier

While I'm writing my Python, the number one naviation action I take is when
adding imports; moving from the portion of code I'm writing up to the top of the
file and back again.  Until I found marks, the process was:

* Remember my current line number
* Use C-b to page all the way back through the file
* Add my import at the top
* Forget my previous line number
* Search the file for my previous position

Clearly this is a function of my poor short-term memory, but even if I
remembered the line number correctly, that's still a lot of steps; My thought
was "there must be an easier way".

There is.

Now when I open any Python file, the first thing I do is hit m then i. This
sets a mark assigned to i at the top of the file, where i stands for
"imports".  Now, when I realise I need to add or remove imports my flow is this:

* Hit m then a. This assigns my current line to the mark at a
* Hit ' then i. This moves me to the mark at i (i.e. the top of the file)
* Do the import thing
* Hit ' then a. This jumps me back to my previous position

This seems like the same amount of work, but since there's no reliance on
short-term memory to remember your line number you can learn these keystrokes
so they're assigned to muscle memory; It ends up being a *lot* quicker.

This trick isn't just good for Python but for any file where you need to jump
around to specific locations regularly.

Despite Vim's tenure on my system I still feel like I haven't begun to scratch
the surface with this editor. Let me know in the comments if you've found any
other ways to use marks.
